Locating Space for Our Shellcode
At this point, we know that we can place
an arbitrary address in EIP,
but we do not know what real address to
use.
However, we can’t choose an address
until we understand where we can redirect
the execution flow.
Therefore, we will first focus on the
executable code we want the target to
execute and, more importantly,
understand where this code will fit in
memory.
Ideally, we want the target to execute
some code of our choosing,
like a reverse shell.
We can include such shellcode as part of
the input buffer that is
triggering the crash.
We will use the Metasploit Framework to
generate our shellcode payload.
Looking back at the registers after our
last crash,
we notice that the ESP register points to
our buffer of C’s.
Since we could easily access this location
at crash time through the address stored
in ESP, this seems like a convenient
location for our shellcode.
Closer inspection of the stack at crash
time reveals that the first four C’s
from our buffer landed after our four B’s
and ESP points to the next four C’s.
From experience, we know that a standard
reverse shell payload requires
approximately 350-400 bytes of space.
However, the stack clearly shows that
there are only sixteen C’s in the buffer,
which isn’t nearly enough space for our
shellcode.
The simplest way around this problem is to
try to increase the buffer length
from 800 to 1500 bytes and see if this
allows enough space for our shellcode
without breaking the buffer overflow
condition
or changing the nature of the crash.
Before we try that, we’ll restart our
application and debugger.
Now let’s examine our next proof of
concept.
In this version of our proof of concept,
we include four C’s to fill in the space
between EIP and ESP.
We also add ‘D’ characters as a
placeholder for our shellcode.
Our overall buffer length will be 1500
bytes so the number of D’s in the buffer
is 1500 minus the length of the filler,
eip, and offset values.
We’ll run our new script and find out if
we managed to increase our available
shellcode space.
Once the new, longer buffer is sent, we
observe a similar crash in the debugger.
This time, however, we find ESP pointing
to the D characters
acting as a placeholder for our shellcode.
This little trick has provided us with
significantly more space to work with.
Our D characters end at an offset of
hex 2C4.
This means that we now have more than 700
bytes of free space for our shellcode.
Also, notice that the address of ESP
changes every time we run the exploit,
but still points to our buffer.
We will address this in a following
section, but first we have another
hurdle to overcome.
Before continuing, let’s restart and
re-attach.